while the assassinations of key Hamas
figures are among the goals of Israel's
ground operation Israeli opposition
leader y lapid has specified six senior
people they are Muhammad Al Di a leader
of hamas's military Wing he's been
described as Israel's Most Wanted Man
many times over the past 30 years there
y sinoa the current leader of Hamas in
the Gaza Strip he spent 22 years in
prison in Israel before being released
as part of a prisoner Exchange in
2011 isma Haner chairman of hamas's
political Bureau Salah Al aruri a deputy
chairman of hamas's political Bureau and
a founding commander of its military
Wing there's Haled Michal a former
leader of the organization and Marwan
Isa Deputy commander-in-chief of hamas's
military
Wing Michael Apple takes a look now at
what Hamas is and what it stands
for the Islamic resistance movement or
Hamas was founded in Gaza in early
December 19 1987 by Palestinian Imam
Sheikh Ahmed Yasin it's an offshoot of
the Muslim Brotherhood an Islamic
political group founded in Egypt in the
1920s in the late 1980s Hamas Rose to
prominence around the start of the first
uising against Israel when
demonstrations broke out in jabalia
refugee
camp it extended its armed struggle to a
commitment to ending Israel's occupation
of Gaza the West Bank and East Jerusalem
Hamas won parliamentary elections in
2006 and the following year took control
of the Gaza Strip from Fat's Palestinian
Authority it seeks to free historic
Palestine stretching from the Jordan
River to the Mediterranean Sea from
Israeli
occupation Hamas strongly opposed the
mid 1990s Oslo Peace Accords that were
negotiated between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel the
Accords gave birth to the idea of a
two-state solution that was to be
implemented over time although hamas's
1988 founding Charter called for
Israel's destruction it changed its
position in
2017 Hamas launched a new Charter
accepting a Palestinian State based on
1967 borders alongside what it calls the
Zionist Enterprise in the past it's
considered implementing a decades long
truce with Israel but never a peace
agreement the movement has a military
Wing the Kasam brigades as well as a
social services division it is this
military Wing together with fighters
from another faction Palestinian Islamic
Jihad that launched the October 7th
attack on Israel by land sea and air
Mike lappel Al
jazer let's speak to ABD Hamed s again
he's professor of uh political science
Middle East studies at rutkus University
joins us here uh so first up Hamas if
Israel successfully targets the military
wing of
Hamas to what extent could they regroup
after that do you
think I mean it's hard to tell now can
they really decapitate all the
leadership uh all the military
leadership I truly doubt it's not that
kind of uh similar to the armies where
you have
a well defined
leadership I mean they are spread out in
the whole Gaza Strip they have some of
them are outside Gaza and the West Bank
some of them are in Janine area some of
them even
outside Palestine Al together those who
coordinate with uh like Hezbollah or
with Iran they have some connection so
they have this kind of uh leadership
that is more of uh spread out is not in
one place so they might hurt uh Hamas
and in some part in Gaza but they've
been expecting that and they've been
building their infrastructure for so
many years especially after
2014 attacks which lasted for 50 days
and they were able to come out of it and
rebuild and re and improve their
technical uh capabilities and improve
their uh connection and finance and all
these things so they've been building
themselves for the last uh decade
knowing that this will happen and it
will happen again since they are corner
and they have no Escape there is no way
out they try to reach out to through the
Egyptian to rebuild Gaza and to have
some kind of uh peace in fact they
change also their political doctr in
2017 here in Qatar MH in uh uh in in May
1st first they issued a new
statement departing from the old uh
program which calls for the complete
liberation of Palestine they they moved
a little bit to the center however I
mean whatever they say they don't take
it seriously on the other side they
think it's a a very uh right radical
group it that needs to be eliminated
right now its Fighters are in in the
teeth of this battle with the Israeli
Army and of course they have more than
200 captive taken prisoner from October
the 7th within Gaza and they're playing
a bigger and bigger role and we're
getting more news now in fact that the
Israeli Army says that a female Soldier
uh prisoner has been freed from Gaza we
don't know anything more than that
what's happened if if it's Israeli
forces who freed her or or she's been
released um there is further news here
but as while we digest that as I say
what happens with the captives is
instrumental in how everything is going
to pan out yeah remember you just asked
me a little before and I expected that
there will be some movement on the uh
captives and that proves it so there is
ongoing diplomatic relations diplomatic
uh efforts and mediation to release more
of uh Israeli captives I think it will
continue they want to improve their
image and by letting three uh Israeli
women speak also they want to say look
they are here we keep them safe and they
should go back home put more pressure on
the prime minister of course I just just
one thing that what I it's not entirely
clear what's happened here it's saying
that that this female Soldier Colonel
URI madish was released during a ground
operation uh after she was kidnapped by
her masseters but I I'm not it's not
clear whether or not she was sort of
willingly released or she was freed so
we need to know that we need to
establish that more but nonetheless it's
all all part of and as you say this
whole issue applying pressure on the
Israeli I think so and and it's a public
opinion now and the Israelis are very
keen to the public opinion especially
when they have their children women and
have having their children in captivity
so they they make a difference and they
put some newspaper like support them and
there is there is a growing pressure on
the prime minister to uh first to Halt
the ground uh attack because that might
hurt the captives and also to find some
common ground with the Palestinians to
release some Palestinian prisoners in
exchange for the hostages I suppose it's
key for the soldiers going in for the
Israeli soldiers going in in this ground
Invasion to establish where all these
prisoners are being kept and presumably
they're dotted around the place but they
will have perhaps elicited information
from prisoners they've taken captive
since The Invasion began to try and
figure out where everybody is and to to
boost whatever intelligence they have
anywh they might get some but I don't
think they will get all right because
look Gil spent almost seven years in
captivity and the
Israelis uh launched many campaign to
try to locate him and get him out and
they failed they they the same thing
with hisbah they kept two two bodies in
for fact for number of years and they
couldn't so they know how to conceive
these things and hide and hide their
information okay we'll leave it there
for the moment more to discuss as night
goes on but thanks very much meantime
ABD Hamid thank you